Global Force Information Management kicks off Phase 2 of data platform development Global Force Information Management kicks off Phase 2 of data platform development U.S. Army Capability Program Executive Enterprise Software and Services (CPE ES2) Story by Christine Kluk Date: 10.05.2022 Posted: 10.07.2022 09:47 News ID: 430931 By Andy St. Laurent, Global Force Information Management, and Maj. Cory Scharbo, HQDA G-3 In early September 2022, PEO EIS’ Global Force Information Management (GFIM) product office and Headquarters, Department of the Army (HQDA) G-3/5/7, kicked off the second phase of development of a data platform that will help Army leaders make prompt and informed force structure decisions. GFIM’s Transactional Material Solution aims to incorporate the capabilities of 14 existing legacy systems and 26 subsystems, providing up to 160,000 users with an integrated, interoperable and transactional platform for planning, programming and producing authoritative global force management data. The platform will leverage cloud-hosting technologies and incorporate artificial intelligence/machine learning and predictive analytics. Once complete, the solution will enable Army and Joint leaders to have access to real-time and integrated authoritative data that provides a holistic view of the Army’s capabilities, readiness, availability and employability. These factors are critical to risk-informed decision-making in support of both training and multi-domain operations (MDO). During Phase 2 of the development process, which runs from September 2022 to June 2023, the GFIM team will deliver both a minimum viable product (MVP) focused on capabilities required for developing the future force, and a prototype focused on capabilities required for mobilization and Deploy to Redeploy and Retrograde (D2RR) processes. GFIM’s “Develop the Future Force” MVP will build on its Phase 1 prototyping efforts completed in May 2022, which focus on Army strategic planning, force requirements determination and force design. Those capabilities currently reside in six disparate legacy systems and are the bedrock for meeting the Army’s training and mission requirements in support of MDO. “This capability is long overdue,” said Lori Mongold, capabilities management officer, HQDA G-3/5/7. “It will establish the foundation within the Army’s Business Mission Area (BMA), ensuring D2RR success not only within the rest of BMA, but within the warfighting mission area and at all levels of the Army — successfully transitioning the service into the information age and beyond.” GFIM’s “Provide the Current Force” prototype, also part of Phase 2, will focus on capabilities required for mobilization and D2RR processes that currently reside in a different set of legacy global force management systems. According to Richard Eva, product lead for GFIM, the Phase 2 project “allows the government to capitalize on best-of-breed solutions for the Army by leveraging our partners’ analytical, functional and data integration expertise.” GFIM’s industry partners for the Phase 2 project include NuWave Solutions LLC, a BigBear.ai. company and Palantir USG. GFIM is part of PEO EIS’ Army Data and Analytics Platforms portfolio.
