Onboard AI: Constraints and Limitations | Center for Security and Emerging Technology Skip to main content Search Search Close Center for Security and Emerging Technology About About Us A policy research organization within Georgetown University’s Walsh School of Foreign Service, CSET provides decision-makers with data-driven analysis on the security implications of emerging technologies. Learn More About Us People Team Advisory Board Affiliates Alumni Students Careers Opportunities Initiatives Emerging Technology Observatory Foundational Research Grants CSET Forum Culture Life at CSET Contact Us Research Areas Research Areas CSET conducts in-depth research on the world’s most critical technological developments. Our data-driven approach provides decision-makers with actionable insights on the security implications of emerging technologies. View All Research Areas Applications Assessment Biotech Compete CyberAI Data Peer Watch Regions Supply Chains Workforce Publications Publications CSET publishes rigorous, data-driven research on emerging technologies and their implications for national and global security. Through our written products — including reports, policy briefs, and other expert commentary — we provide policymakers and the public with actionable insights on critical issues at the intersection of technology, security, and policy. View All Publications Reports Blog Data Snapshots policy.ai Translations News & Events News & Events CSET hosts regular webinars and in-person events with leading experts, prominent policymakers, and experienced developers. Subscribe for News & Events News Events Featured Article How America’s Dizzying AI Strategy Plays Into China’s Hands August 7, 2026 CSET’s Sam Bresnick shared his expert insight in an op-ed published by Barron’s. In his piece, he examines how the Trump administration’s AI strategy could affect U.S. competitiveness with China, particularly as the administration seeks to promote AI and semiconductor exports while addressing national security concerns. Donate Subscribe Search Reports Onboard AI: Constraints and Limitations Kyle Miller and Andrew Lohn August 2023 Artificial intelligence that makes news headlines, such as ChatGPT, typically runs in well-maintained data centers with an abundant supply of compute and power. However, these resources are more limited on many systems in the real world, such as drones, satellites, or ground vehicles. As a result, the AI that can run onboard these devices will often be inferior to state of the art models. That can affect their usability and the need for additional safeguards in high-risk contexts. This issue brief contextualizes these challenges and provides policymakers with recommendations on how to engage with these technologies. Download Full Report Executive Summary AI can achieve remarkable performance under ideal conditions that are difficult to replicate in many real-world settings. The AI that often captures headlines typically runs under these conditions, in well-maintained data centers with an abundant supply of compute and power. Currently, most top-performing AI models designed for vision and language applications rely on these abundant resources. However, these resources are highly constrained on many systems in the real world, be it drones, satellites, or ground vehicles. This is the challenge of ‘onboard AI’: running AI directly on a device or system without additional backend compute support. There are times when running models onboard is optimal or necessary, and doing so can bring a range of advantages. However, onboard computing constraints can introduce significant limitations, or completely inhibit the use of certain models on some systems. This creates a gap between the highest-performing AI systems and those deployed in the real world, which has implications for the performance and robustness of many sought-after applications. Onboard AI systems are constrained for several reasons, but the primary factor is processing speed. The highest-performing models execute extremely large numbers of computations for each output they produce. These calculations require high-performance processors, often many of them. However, because of their size and power demands, such processors cannot be used in various systems. Practically, this means chips designed for onboard use do orders of magnitude fewer calculations and cannot run AI models quickly enough for many applications. Onboard AI systems also need substantial working memory. Data center chips have the memory to hold large models, store the results of ongoing calculations, and enable fast communications both on the chip and between chips to split the calculations across several devices. However, many devices are not designed for large-scale computations or equipped with large working memories. These constraints are influenced by the size, weight, and power limitations of many systems. Most state-of-the-art chips use far more power than what is available on small-footprint devices. Powerful chips require larger and heavier batteries that are infeasible for lightweight systems such as small drones, in addition to the chip’s packaging, which can increase their weight by a factor of ten. Finally, real-world applications might have to sacrifice computing capabilities for a host of other reasons, such as radiation hardness and temperature sensitivity. Moreover, chips age and become out of date if they operate for many years, which can make them ill-equipped to process contemporary models. Stakeholders across government and industry should understand that these constraints cannot always be resolved, given current technologies and platform limitations. Engineers can mitigate some of them, such as by using different algorithms that are less resource-intensive but still have acceptable performance. However, in many cases, onboard AI will be inferior to the state-of-the-art models that grab headlines or achieve high-level performance on benchmarks. In some high-risk contexts, the use of AI onboard systems may be inappropriate or require additional safeguards. Onboard AI: Constraints and Limitations Download Full Report Related Documents Report on a Page - Onboard AI: Constraints and Limitations Authors Kyle Miller Andrew Lohn Topics Compute CyberAI Citation Kyle Miller and Andrew Lohn, "Onboard AI: Constraints and Limitations" (Center for Security and Emerging Technology, August 2023). https://doi.org/10.51593/2022CA008 Related Content Previous Next Reports AI and Compute January 2022 Between 2012 and 2018, the amount of computing power used by record-breaking artificial intelligence models doubled every 3.4 months. Even with money pouring into the AI field, this trendline is unsustainable. Because of cost, hardware… Read More Data Brief “The Main Resource is the Human” April 2023 Progress in artificial intelligence (AI) depends on talented researchers, well-designed algorithms, quality datasets, and powerful hardware. The relative importance of these factors is often debated, with many recent “notable” models requiring massive expenditures of advanced… Read More Reports Defending the Ultimate High Ground July 2023 China has poured resources into improving the resilience of its space architecture. But how much progress has Beijing made? This issue brief analyzes China’s space resilience efforts and identifies areas where the United States may… Read More Reports Why AI Chips Matter April 2020 As artificial intelligence is applied to new and more complex tasks, the computational power necessary to develop and deploy it will become increasingly expensive. This policy brief offers a concise overview of the full report,… Read More The Center for Security and Emerging Technology within Georgetown University's Walsh School of Foreign Service provides decision-makers with data-driven analysis on the security implications of emerging technologies. About Research Areas Publications News & Events Careers Donate Sign up to receive our newsletter, research updates, and events. Subscribe General Inquiries cset@georgetown.edu Media Inquiries danny.hague@georgetown.edu Linkedin Twitter Youtube Github ©2025 Center for Security and Emerging Technology. All Rights Reserved. Contact Us Policies This website uses cookies. To learn more, please review this policy . By continuing to browse the site, you agree to these terms. Okay Disable Cookies Privacy & Cookies Policy Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these cookies, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may have an effect on your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT
